I believe today's the easiest time ever in
the history of mankind to think big. Ever!
I'm talking EVER. And you'll find out why
by the time you're done watching this entire
video. I'm going to cover things that you
can implement for you to start thinking bigger
than you've ever thought before. And here's
why; this is my argument.
What is difficult is for you and a group of
people to decide to create the pyramid in
Egypt without cranes. Now that's difficult
to think big. That's impossible, some would
say. What would seem impossible is for you
to invent a machine that weighs tons and tons
of weight to tell 400-500 people at a time,
go in that machine right there and fly 4,000
miles. It's not going to crash, you're going
to be safe. And a billion people say, "Okay,
I believe you." That's impossible. That's
difficult to say I'm going to think that big.
I'm going to create this ship. It's okay you
guys can get on this ship. I know we don't
see what's out there, your name is Christopher.
Christopher, go out there. And we don't know
what's going to happen. We're going to make
it out of wood because we don't know how to
make it out of metal at that time. You go
straight, and eventually you're going to get
to maybe another land, and you can call it,
it's your land, while people have been there;
that's impossible. That's not thinking big.
That's impossible to a lot of people. Landing
on the moon for the first time, it had never
been done. We don't even know what's out there.
You know what? Why don't we just go up there.
We don't know what's out there. We keep looking
through these lenses and you know, it's kind
of cool. I think there is something out there,
and it's called this, and it's called that.
Let's go check it out! That's difficult. Today,
for an entrepreneur to think big, piece of
cake today. It requires energy, it requires
you knowing the formula. It requires effort.
Requires the desire, but if you're somebody
that's watching this and saying, "Pat, I absolutely
want to think big," I'm going to cover it
with you here today.
But before I get into my points, I want to
first of all thank a lot of you guys. Today's
my birthday, and we've had so many people
send us gifts from all over the place. I want
to thank you. We started off with some strange
- what do you call that from our friend, Mark
Molina, what do you call it? An exotic dancing
gram, he sent to my headquarters for a lady
to come and sing happy birthday to you. I
appreciate that, but I'm not the wolf of life
insurance industry. I think he mistook me
for the wolf of Wall Street. We got so many,
I mean, balloons galore, we could start a
balloon business here. I got here from John,
John, you sent me this here, John, an attorney
from New York, and your son, Andrew. Andrew,
buddy, I love the note you sent. You keep
listening to your pops, and you keep learning
about what it is to become an entrepreneur.
One day in the future we could possibly vote
for you to become a president.
I like this gift here from. . . Senna, you
know I'm a Senna fan. My daughter's name is
Senna. Exactly - S E N N A. This is how much
I love this guy, Senna. And Armand sent me
a nice little thing here, Senna, I appreciate
that. I'm not going to go through all of them.
I'm just giving you a flavor here. James Dean,
James Dean, if we go through the top it says,
"Dream as if you'll live forever, live as
if you'll die today," which he did, but that
quote is a great quote, and I'm going to leave
one of these here that was funny for me. I
get shoes sent to me all the time because
of a video I did a long time ago on how I
used to set up meetings, when I was a financial
adviser at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. I would
send a box with a shoe in there saying now
that I have one foot in the door, help me
get the second one in. And these guys got
a little more creative. They decided to send
me Air Jordans. And I've got to give them
love. This is from Arash Kari. Arash, you
are the man, and you are creative. And I can't
wait to get the second shoe of this pair,
but I appreciate all the Happy Birthday messages
I got on Snapchat, Instagram, Facebook, Twitter.
Thank you for all the love. More and more,
every time I hear this message, this validates
how many entrepreneurs we have around the
world that are following this content that
want to do something big with their lives.
So let's get right into the episode on how
to think big as an entrepreneur. Listen. The
usual suspects you'll hear about is what?
Books, associations, environment. Pat, you've
got to read the right books, you've got to
have the right associations, you've got to
have the right environment. Absolutely, these
are the usual suspects. Whatever I cover with
you does not discount this. You need to do
this, but I'm covering things you don't typically
hear about, the unusual suspects. Then I'll
give you a plan on the end of what to do,
and some things I'll cover, there's going
to be a bunch of points. I don't know how
many points it is. I'll have them all here.
It won't be in any specific order. You need
to take notes even though it's typed out on
my website. But you'll probably have a lot
of questions you'll want to ask about this
that we'll start a dialog on the bottom.
Okay, so let's get right into it.
#1: One of the things is that I love doing
is I look at everything on thinking big from
the standpoint of math. So let's just say
math. Math has a lot to do with thinking big.
Let me make my case to you on what I mean
by math has a lot to do with thinking big.
The way I used to do it was this. I used to
ask myself, what number comes after three?
So if I can make three dollars, do you think
I could make four dollars? Everybody would
say what? Of course. Okay, if I could make
100 dollars, could I make 200 dollars? Yes,
Pat, where are you going with this? If you
can make $1,000 can you make $2,000? Of course.
If you can make 10 grand in a month, can you
make 11 grand a month? Yes, of course you
can. So when does this stop? Never. It only
stops when you no longer are applying math
to thinking big. See, thinking big to me is
purely math. No number is an end number. If
I ask you right now what's the biggest number
in the world, you can't think about a number.
Because there isn't a number that's the biggest
number in the world. A billion times billion
times billion is still a number that's bigger
if you give another multiplication times another
billion. And that's still not the biggest
number. If you go against another billion.
And another billion and another billion. There
is no number that's a limit. People aren't
going to hit these numbers. Billionaires seemed
impossible until somebody became a billionaire.
Today, Elon Musk could be the first guy that
could potentially be a trillionaire if he
goes at the pace that he's going. This is
going to happen. But you need to take these
big numbers that seem impossible, and I'm
starting with this first, you need to take
numbers that seem impossible, and just know
it's numbers. There is nothing to be afraid
of numbers. It's purely math! What is so big
about numbers? Nothing is big about numbers.
You need to look at math first, period. The
difference between a small thinker and a big
thinker is multiplication. The big thinker's
multiplying. The small thinker is addition.
He's only adding. Two plus two plus two plus
two plus two is ten. Two times two times two
times two times two is not ten. It's a lot
more than that. It's multiplication, but it's
math. Multiplication, addition, math. It's
purely math. So start off with whatever you
think seems absolutely big that you cannot
do. Bring it down to a number. Look at it
as the number you haven't done yet, that's
all it is, a number you haven't done that
you eventually need to get to to do. The number
one thing that I like to do is, I look at
everything as math. I bring it down and make
it a smaller bite, then I know I can get the
bigger bite, but I've got to get the smaller
bite based on that.
#2: Next point about how to think bigger.
So whatever the big thinking idea is that
I have, whatever the big thinking idea is
that I have, I need confidence to be thinking
bigger. And confidence happens with smaller
victories. If you can have small victories
in a game, or in business, you eventually
start believing you can have the bigger victories.
But a bigger victory doesn't all of a sudden
happen. A big victory is a combination of
many, many small victories that didn't stop
after another one. You have one victory, boom,
go get another one, and another one, and another
one and another one and another one. All of
a sudden, you have a massive victory. So you've
got to have a lot of your small victories
that are taking place together while you're
going at it.
#3:Another thing that I would do is, say you
have a big idea. And you want to do something
big. Say you have a goal in your business,
you want to do something big that's never
been done in your business before. Test it
with five people, and see if you can convince
one of them that believe you. It's a very
interesting exercise. Get five of your team
members. You've got five sales people? Meet
with them individually, or in a group setting.
Or take five of your employees. Take your
wife, your boyfriend, your girlfriend, your
husband, brother, sister, mom, dad, best friend
- whatever it is. And tell them you have an
idea. Hey, you know what I'm thinking about?
What are you thinking about? I'm thinking
about doing this, this, this, and one day
we're going to do this and . . . and see their
reaction on how it is. If you can convince
them to believe you even this much, it's possible.
Does that make sense? I don't know if that
made sense. Try to convince somebody about
the big idea that you have and watch their
reaction. That ought to tell you a lot.
For instance, I remember when I had nothing
going on. I was broke, $49K in debt, I had
nothing going on. I was driving a Ford Focus.
I would go intentionally to Ferrari dealerships.
And you know what I would do? I would go,
walk in, I'd walk in and I'd walk around the
dealership and I'd be looking at the cars
and I wanted to ask myself, can I convince
this car salesman by the way he looks at me,
does he believe I can actually be a qualified
buyer? And if you go in and nobody comes to
talk to you, they don't believe you're a qualified
buyer. If you go in and they come and talk
to you like you know what, he just acted like
he believes I can buy this, maybe I can one
day buy this.
Go to a real estate showing where they're
selling three million dollar homes. And walk
in. And walk around. And say, I'm here for
this open house. Great. And see if the listing
real estate agent believes you. Watch the
reaction. The first thing they'll do, they'll
go like this [looking down], they'll come
up, but forget what you look like. You know
what they look at? At your body language,
at your eyes, the way you walk. If you convince
them, they're trying to tell you, I believe
you could potentially one day own a three
million dollar house. That's what they're
really saying to you. So take your idea and
share it and pitch it to three to five other
people can see how they react to you. If their
reaction is believe it, even if it's 10 - 20%,
then it's possible for you to actually go
out there and hit that. You've just got to
think bigger, right? Test it out with the
people around you.
#4: Another one is, study people. When I say
"study people," I don't mean by studying people
in the way where everybody says, "Go study
this person, go study that person." Study
what that person studies. So, for instance,
don't just study Michael Jordan, study who
Michael Jordan studies, which is David Thompson.
Don't just study David Thompson, study who
David Thompson studies. And go deeper in that.
Don't just study, you know, I used to study
the people I was looking at in business in
the insurance world, and I would say, "Man,
what makes that guy special? Who did he study?
He studied Teddy Roosevelt. He studied Coach
Bear Bryant. He studied Churchill. Man, let
me see why he studied those people." This
other guy was so strategic. He studied Alexander
the Great. He studied Darius. Why did he study
those guys? Oh, now I understand. This guy
here, he studied the Chinese emperors and
what was he doing studying the China Dynasty
and all these guys have built this big military.
Why was he studying them? This other guy here.
. . layer it, layer it. Why was Tony Robbins
studying this guy? Why was Reagan studying.
. . why was Kennedy. . . why were these people
reading. . . Who are they studying? So go
deeper and deeper and deeper and deeper. What
this does to you is this. Let me tell you
what this does to you. It tells you that the
person that you admire now, at one point,
they doubted, but they studied other people
that injected belief in them to make them
believe that they can be the person they are
now, that you admire.
I hope I'm making sense. I'm not trying to
get too technical. Go study who they study,
and that will give you a source of inspiration
to know that you can one day be the person
that you're looking at, saying, this is impossible
for me to be like this person. No, you can,
based on studying the people that they studied.
Let me continue.
#5: So, next point. Again, Paul's going to
put the numbers here, I'm not putting numbers
here. Next point is this. I believe, just
like when I said earlier to you when I said
it's easier to think big, it's also the most
important time to think big. I said this on
a video, I've been saying it on Mentions,
I've been saying that I believe 100% of world's
problems are going to be solved by entrepreneurs.
I believe that. I believe 100% of world's
problems are going to be solved by entrepreneurs,
if we keep giving birth to entrepreneurs,
entrepreneurs who make it, they have one ability
- they're problem solvers. They look at something
complex, they make it simplified, they add
five steps to it, you follow it, you win,
you make, you can solve cancer. You can solve
health issues. You can solve job creation.
You can solve economy challenges that we're
facing in the world. You can solve anything
we have going on. Every single problem in
the world can be solved by ent. . . every
single one of them. Our educational system,
our political system, our oil challenges we're
having - anything that we have can be solved
by entrepreneurs. So, as you're watching this,
a lot of times the first motivation for somebody
who's never been an entrepreneur will say,
it'd be kind of cool to have a lot of money
and to have this. . . That's great. There's
nothing wrong with all that stuff. Don't let
anybody convince you having a big house, having
cars and having toys is not important. If
you like it, you go get it. But, it's got
to be bigger than that. It's got to be bigger
than that. You've got to want to do something
bigger than that. Today, know that the world
is counting on you to solve some big problems.
You can run your business, but know that you've
got to figure out a way for your business
that's making a lot of money to also make
a positive impact on the world. Social cause,
positive impact in the world, with you being
an entrepreneur.
#6:
Imagination. Big thinkers, if you're ever
around big thinkers - today, we just had a
meeting, literally a meeting right now. It
was a meeting we had right now with me, you,
Paul and Tom, right? And we're writing stuff
on the board. All of a sudden, boom! Mario
says something. Then I said something. Then
Paul said something. I think Paul started
it. Paul said something and I said, "Paul,
that's a great idea." And then I said something,
then Tom said something, then Mario said something,
and then Mario went to the bathroom and then
he came back, but then Tom said something,
Paul said something, and then it led to a
massive idea. Then I asked Tom to send an
email to a couple of guys we've got to get
a call on from Australia and we're doing a
call now about this massive idea that has
to do with the business that we're running
today. But it lead to them because it's like,
"What if we could do this? And what if that
takes place? How about if. . what if it cost
this much? What if. . ."
Seeds, seeds, seeds, and the roots keep growing,
keep growing, keep growing and then boom,
all of a sudden you've got a massive idea.
So imagination, especially if it's a group
of people that are also people that are imagination
type of people, and that goes. That goes,
so the big thinker is all about imagination.
A big thinker is all about imagination.
Nike used to get killed. Nike was getting
killed. A guy, there's a whole complicated
story behind it. Some people say it's not
him, some people say it's an Italian Mafia
guy from New York that came to Nike and said,
the way we're going to save it is there's
a guy that's coming out of college, North
Carolina, he's the most incredible basketball
- he's going to be the greatest basketball
player of all time. He goes to Nike and says,
let's sign this guy and give him a half a
million dollar contract. What are you talking
about? We don't have money. I'm telling you,
forget all these other chumps you're giving
50 to $100,000. Give this one guy a half a
million dollars and look what will happen.
No! And then Michael comes, they talk. And
all Michael, he wanted was an exotic car,
apparently in the negotiation ended up with
them giving him a half a million dollars for
two years, or a million dollars for two years,
and a Lamborghini or something. So Mike, he
signed a contract and then today, you know
what this [shoe] is going to make Mike be
worth in the next ten, fifteen, the number's
estimated 20 billion dollars in ten years.
Imagination. This guy imagined what would
happen if we brought MJ to Nike to solve Nike
and Nike dominates everybody. And basketball
used to be Reebok. Basketball used to be Converse.
Magic was Reebok. Wasn't Magic Reebok? Converse,
all these - nobody was looking at Nike as
basketball. And then it took off. Imagination.
So you don't necessarily have to be an entrepreneur
by the way. You can be working with an entrepreneur
in a company and you all of a sudden come
up with an idea like this that takes the business
to the next level. You're a big thinker. You're
linked to a big thinker. It wouldn't happen
without you, because you're a big thinker,
right? So imagination.
#7:
Next one. You've got to turn off the noise.
You've got to turn off the noise. The noise
needs to be turned off. And I'm talking different
types of noises. One is too much social media
time with newsfeed, it's noise. Too much.
I don't need it. Too much political stuff
right now, you think a big thinker is looking
at every single thing about Hillary Clinton
and she's doing this, did you know she did
this and did you know Trump did this and did
you know. . . They get bullet points in the
morning when they wake up because current
affairs, you've got to know what's going on
with politics, if it's the country you're
living in. But if you go diving into it, then
you reading the conspiracy theories, Alex
Jones, and Rachel Maddox and all this other,
oh my gosh, did you see what Anderson Cooper
said, or Sean Hannity. . . you're too much
into it. That's noise. Way too much noise.
Way too much noise. Clinton and Trump are
not going to change your life. They're not.
They're not going to change your habits. They're
not going to make you better entrepreneur,
they're not going to make you sharper, they're
not going to help you come up with better
ideas. They're actually going to consume your
mind with things you shouldn't be thinking
about that's going to piss you off. Because
regardless of who you support, you don't like
the other person. So the other person's going
to piss you off nonstop. Turn off the noise.
Turn off the noise of negative friends, small
thinkers. Turn off the noise of family members
that don't support what you want to do. Don't
even bring up the ideas in front of them.
Some of them you can't get away from. Some
of them are your parents. Some of them are
your brothers and sisters, siblings. Some
of them could be a boyfriend, girlfriend.
Some of them could be your spouse. Some of
them could be your cousin. Turn it off and
if you know you bring up an idea it's going
to go to negative time, do not bring it up
in front of them. Turn off the noise. Turn
off the noise. Stop any distractions, any
negativity, make time to think, about what
you could do to think bigger in the business,
in whatever company, whatever business you're
running, as a real estate agent, insurance
agent, as a technology, IT, it doesn't matter.
What can you do to think bigger yourself to
be the dominant force in the company you're
part of, in the business you're part of, in
the industry you're part of. What can you
do? Think bigger. Right? Think bigger.
#8:
Next one, test the capacity of an idea. What
is the capacity of an idea? Take out a piece
of paper and pen, or board and marker. Test
out the capacity of an idea. Okay, what would
happen if this step. How big can this thing
get? It can get this big. How big is the market
for this? It's pretty big. How big can that
market be? How big's the market in New York?
23 million people. How big's the market in
LA? 4.2 million. How big is the market in
Houston? 3.8. Didn't they just pass Chicago?
Chicago's now 3.6 or something? That's a pretty
big market. How big is this market for this?
What if we actually. . . what if we sell to
this market? What if we get into that market?
What if we got more people that were doing.
. . what if we got more people to sell the
product? What if we got somebody. . . what
if. . . Capacity's pretty good, if we do this.
But test the capacity. What if I take this
to even a whole different level? Remember,
Mark Zuckerberg wasn't necessarily a big thinker.
He was a developer, a mind. The big thinker
where Facebook became what it is is who? What's
his name? Sean Parker. So Sean Parker was
played by who in that movie? Justin Timberlake.
Sean Parker's the Nabster guy and he [Mark]
said, Man, I feel like we have a million dollar
opportunity. And Sean said, no, no, this is
a billion dollar opportunity. Right? And he
comes and sees the capacity, and he says,
what if we can get into this? What if this
is not just universities? What if this is
not just colleges? What if we go into Canada?
What if we go into Europe? We haven't even
gone. . . what if, what if, what if? And man,
he's got a point! What if? Boom! Today, 1.7
billion users on Facebook. Dominant over everybody.
Zuckerberg's worth 50 something, Sean's worth
a few billion. A bunch of people made a bunch
of money, but everyone was thinking about
what can they do to test the capacity? So
everybody was testing the capacity of how
they can make it bigger and bigger and bigger.
A group of big thinkers that said, what if
we can make this thing even bigger? Test the
capacity.
#9: Next, let the idea loose. Let the idea
loose a little bit. Let it loose. The Tasmanian
Devil needs to be let loose at times. You
can't lock up a Tasmanian Devil. You won't
know it's capacity. You've got to let him
lose at times. You got to let a great idea
loose at times and see what it leads to. It
could take you to places you never thought
you could get to, but you've got to let the
idea loose at times. You've got to let the
idea loose at times. And you'll see it spread.
It's kind of like test the capacity but let
the idea loose. So imagination, you know,
test the capacity, let the idea loose, they're
all kind of somewhat together, but each one
of them I want to tell you so you kind of
understand the purpose of each one of them.
#10
Next, curiosity. Ask a lot of questions. For
instance, I'm in an industry, I had a call
today with a very, very, very, very big company.
Let's just say a few hundred million dollars.
We had a conference call today with them,
and they're very interested in what we're
doing, and I brought up the idea to them on
what I want to do. And I was telling them
all these ideas I have with what I'm thinking
about doing. And I started questioning certain
things. And, he's like, "Wow, it sounds like
you know the market pretty well. And we're
curious about this. Because we were curious,
we asked this question. When we asked this
question, we got this answer. And when we
asked this question, it made us research this
and this research brought us to another question
that led to another question and we got the
answer here. And then we also looked at this
here because we were curious what could happen
if we could do this, and we got stuck because
one question we couldn't answer and then we
figured this out, then we contacted the right
person, then the right attorney whose $1200
an hour, and then she introduced us to this
person, and we got this answer. But we were
curious. And we asked the right questions.
And so collectively, they're on the call,
now we're meeting, New York, big meeting,
etc. etc. and that could lead into a whole
different story, because we're curious on
how we can make an industry that I'm a part
of that's probably the most boring industry
in the world, the life insurance industry
that no one's paying attention to, but because
we're curious, we're finding ways to disrupt
this entire industry that I am in love with.
That people think, Pat, you're out of your
mind. How do you love life insurance? I LOVE
what we do, right? But we were curious. And
I'll get into a little bit more on that later
on in the video.
#11
Next, ask the question when you're thinking
big, why don't you. . . and answer it. And
I'm not just doing this motivational video,
Why not you! Why shouldn't you win! No, no.
Forget motivational. Let's get logical. Why
not you? Actually answer that. Why can't you
be somebody that can do something in your
business that's never been done before? Why
not you? Answer it. So give the argument,
logically, here's why not me. Because I don't
work hard enough. You can fix that. Stop being
lazy. Well, whatever, but because I'm not
that good in sales. You can learn sales. So,
okay, because, I don't know much about the
product. You can learn the product! But why
not you? Because no one in my family's been
rich. So what? No one was rich in Zuckerberg's
family before he became who he is today, and
nobody was in Job's. Job's mom even gave him
up for adoption. So, whatever, but. . . so
why not you? Make your argument. Why not you?
Truly get into it. Then, give the other argument.
Why not you actually doing this? Why shouldn't
you be the person? And say, I'm a very smart
person. I love people. I actually like to
make money to make a difference in the world.
And you know what? I care for people. And
I have some things I want to do. If I get
money in my pocket, I'll be good with it.
And I've got a big heart, and I have talent
and . . . And I know the right people. Boom!
That's why not you. Make both cases, as if
you're an attorney representing yourself.
One, why not you, meaning you shouldn't be
the person, and the other, why not you, meaning
you should be the person. Sell both of them.
And then see which argument wins. Something
tells me the argument on this side's going
to win. But make the argument. Take a sheet
of paper and make that argument. Why not you?
Question that a little bit. Who convinced
you you can't do it? Who convinced you you
can't be part of a group of people. I watched
so many guys on YouTube that, even some of
these guys are considered experts by big magazines
and they've written New York Times bestsellers
and they say some shit like Oh, you know,
entrepreneurs are born. Give me a damn break!
Entrepreneurship can be taught. Entrepreneurship
is an inspiration that comes from here [belly]
that want to solve a big problem. What do
you mean entrepreneurship is something you're
born with? I completely disagree with that
statement. I fully disagree with that statement.
Jumping 48"? That's God-given ability. You
can't do that. Entrepreneurship? It is a formula.
If you hang around other people that think
like this, and you watch this video, and you
watch all of Valuetainment or some of the
people that are feeding the right type of
content to you, and the right books you read,
your imagination won't stop working. Because
the entrepreneur is numbers, solving problems,
how can I do it better, faster? Why can't
you learn those skills? Why can't you? You
can. So why not you? And don't let anybody
convince you that people who solve some big
problems and are big thinkers have to be born
being big thinkers. I'm here to tell you you
can figure out the formula to thinking bigger.
Don't let them convince you that these elite
people, sometimes I sit around with my friends
that are worth money as well. I'm around these
guys all the time. So now you know, hey Pat,
come around the meeting, we're going to have
some party with these billionaires. Okay great.
I'm going with these guys. And, you know,
I was always special because. . . Oh my gosh,
stop it already. When you almost lost everything,
you did not think you were special. None of
us do. And then we have our break, and we
win. You can do it as well.
#12
Next one, cut the fat. Cut the fat out of
your life. Let me tell you what I mean by
cut the fat. if video games is not how you're
planning making your money, cut the fat. If
you have these three hobbies of you playing
badminton in Bakersfield or you're playing
ping pong or bowling league or all this other
stuff that's requiring nine hours of your
time? Cut the fat! If you've got three girlfriends
or three boyfriends, cut the fat! If you party
at the nightclub three times a week, cut the
fat! If you're going out there, not taking
life seriously and there's two bad habits
you have or vice that no one knows about?
Cut the fat! It's hold you back from thinking
big. Stop it. It's not helping you out as
much as you think it is. Cut the fat. You
know exactly what I'm talking about. I don't
need to explain it to you. You know what I'm
talking about. Think about it. You're thinking
about it right now. That thing you're thinking
about? Cut it! If you want to think big. It's
holding you back. It's not worth it. I promise
you. Whatever thing that's giving you fulfillment,
it ain't going to give you as much fulfillment
as thinking big. I guarantee you that part.
It ain't going to give you as much fulfillment.
You've got to cut the fat.
#13
Next is believers. Be around believers. Now
there's a part of this that's environment,
but I'm talking about believers that believe
in your idea. You know, this could actually
happen. What if we could actually do this?
You know, what if we could actually pull this
off. You need believers. Just like Justin
Beiber has his fans, he calls them what? Believers.
You need believers is what you need.
#14:
Next, this one's a little technical, so I'm
going to try to explain it to you in a way,
but it's a little bit technical. Momentum
vs. Resistance. Momentum vs. Resistance. What
is momentum vs. resistance? Big thinkers typically
have one of these two on their side. No one
goes and takes the normal way out of being
a big thinker. It's either they get themselves
caught up in the momentum that's taking place
in their industry or they go absolutely against
resistance and they win, and they become a
hero. You want some points? I'll give you
some points. For instance, John F. Kennedy
had momentum. MLK went against resistance.
Now both of them were assassinated. I'm not
telling you you're going to get assassinated.
I'm telling you they both did something that
history favors both of them. JFK, MLK. JFK
had momentum, MLK had resistance. History
books, 2000 years from now, if Armageddon
doesn't happen and we're still around, and
our great, great, great grandkids are around?
They're going to know about JFK and they're
going to know about resistance, MLK. Let me
continue. Today, on this [resistance] side,
you would have Elon Musk. Resistance. Why?
You tell me the last time somebody broke into
the car market and gave Ford, Toyota, Chevrolet,
all these guys a run for their money. You
tell me the last time someone did that. Who?
Fisker? Fisker failed. Who else are you thinking
about? When was the last time? How many years?
No one has. Elon Musk went against resistance.
Let me get this straight, you're going to
create an electric car? And you're going to
take market away from these bigger guys? Yes.
How are you planning on doing that? It's resistance.
He went against resistance. The other one,
PayPal. Resistance. Why? No one's going to
trust - remember back in the days when people
didn't trust buying things online? I don't
trust giving my credit card information. Remember
those days? Today, how often do you give your
credit card information online? They had resistance.
There was resistance for it. Amazon was resistance.
You're going to stop selling books in bookstores?
No, no, no. Borders. No, no, no, Barnes & Noble.
Resistance. He proved, he won. Almost went
out of business, but he won. Now momentum.
Netflix is momentum. Someone says, that's
almost resistance. No, it's momentum. Today
I watched a movie, what movie did I tell you
guys about that I was very impressed with?
The Accountant, with Ben Affleck. I'm not
a Ben Affleck fan, but Ben Affleck did Good
Will Hunting, phenomenal and The Accountant,
best movie of the year for me, phenomenal
movie, right? Right now, you know what momentum
is? Today is not making movies, it's making
episodic series, whatever you want to call
it. House of Cards or Narcos, give me some
of them. All these other things that are out
there. That's momentum. So people are, YouTube
wants to do that, you have Roku, you've got
Hulu, everybody. That's momentum. People are
in the momentum way. In mortgages in 2003,
2004, when mortgages were skyrocketing? Everybody
was getting into the pick a payment loan.
That was momentum. You're riding the momentum.
But in 2008, Big Short, the movie, that was
about what? Michael Lewis wrote it. That was
about resistance. Same industry, one way was
momentum, the other one is resistance. They
said, No, this is going to collapse. Here's
300 million dollars. You're out of your mind!
Goldman Sachs. Here's 300 million dollars.
Yes, haha, he's an idiot. Resistance day one,
made a lot of money, millions of people lost
their homes. Resistance. So what are you doing?
I'm in the resistance game. I'm in the life
insurance business. I'm not in the momentum
business. I'm in the resistance business.
I'm in the resistance business today. I'm
in the business that most people say, Oh,
I'm not going to get into insurance. I'm in
a business right now where the financial industry
regulation, regulation, regulation. I'm in
the resistance business. But here's what I
do know about the resistance business. I do
know 41% of Americans don't have any life
insurance. I do know 95 million adults today
don't have life insurance. I know we have
the fewest amount of life insurance agents
we've ever had in America in a LONG time.
Nearly 50 years. 50 years. I know what's happening
in the industry. There is resistance in our
industry. I know the industry lacks multi-cultural
agents. I know the industry's increasing in
multi-cultural clients that like to be sold
preferably by multi-cultural agents. I know
the industry has resistance because 25 year
olds coming out of college are not turned
on by the life insurance industry. We're doing
it. And we're very comfortable saying life
insurance. Our competitors are afraid. Don't
use the word, people don't like it. I don't
care if you don't like it. I love the industry.
Resistance. Resistance. I know people buy
shoes, cars, homes, clothes, no one buys life
insurance. Life insurance is so. . . it's
resistance, I know it. But I see a massive
opportunity with it, because I see exactly
what's going on with the industry. I chose
resistance. You don't have to choose resistance.
There's momentum, there's resistance. You
choose which one you want to be a part of.
And by the way, I can go on right now VR,
virtual reality is the hot thing right now.
Hot thing, virtual reality. You've got offense
[momentum], you've got defense [resistance].
You can put it up the way you want to put
it up, but you've got offense, defense, I
already covered a bunch of these things I
have here. Momentum vs. resistance.
How is your business going to be part of either
one of these things? Is it going to be momentum
or is it going to be resistance? Big thinkers
figure one of these two out. You know, if
we do this, what if this thing gets like this,
there's momentum. You know there's so many
problems in our industry, what if we actually
solve it. We're heroes. Resistance. Which
one do you want? Big thinkers chooses one
of these. Make a list of it, in your company,
in your field, in your industry, in your profession
you've chosen to be part of. Which of them
do you want to be part of? You can choose
either. I chose resistance, many choose momentum.
You can choose your own.
Let me continue.
#15
Next, look where no one's looking. Look where
no one's looking. I've said this so many times.
You go to a bar, men, when you go to a bar,
who is everybody looking at at that bar or
nightclub? Who? The hottest girl in the club.
And everyone knows which one it is. It's the
girl in the green dress. Everyone's checking
her out. And guess who's around her? Everybody.
You know what your odds are? If there's 500
men in that nightclub, there's one of her,
it's one to 500. Do you know what those percentages
are? .2% chance she's going to say yes to
you. Do you want those kinds of odds? You
don't want those kinds of odds. Go find the
eight, and look what happens with the eight.
The eight has only 30 men looking at her.
You're one of them. You've got a 3% chance.
It's higher chances. Go look at places that
no one's looking at and see who's more interesting.
It's not always the sexiest thing on the outside
that's the best company to be a part of, or
the best industry to be a part of. Sometimes
it's where no one's looking. Everyone's going
here [left]. You go here [right]. Everybody
and their mother's joining this incredible
next movement that's going to be the revolution
of . . . that's great. Let them go. You go
look at something no one's looking at. Massive
opportunity. Blue Ocean, Red Ocean. Shark
infested market everyone's biting, killing
each other, there's only a couple of sharks
you're dealing with. You can actually negotiate
with those sharks and say, hey listen, I've
got a big bite. You want to share this? Yeah.
Here's a bite for you, here's a bit for me.
Cool? Pepsi, Coke. Big market. You take some,
I'll take some. Are we cool? We're cool. But
only two. Everybody else wants to fight for,
why? Everyone wants to fight for, you know,
beer. Look, dude, what do you want? You're
a big shark, I'm a big shark. Yea, go eat
the food. I'll give you some. Here's yours.
Fine. Let's go do it. Go where no one's looking.
It's so much easier.
#16
Next, deliberately forbid conventional solutions.
Stop thinking about the conventional way of
doing things. No, you've got to be an out
of the box thinker. You've got to be an out
of the box thinker. You can't think about
every single way everybody else wants to solve
that problem. Drop conventional thinking.
Big thinkers kind of look at it different
ways. They stick to it and they don't constantly
change all the time, because once something
works, you stick to it, and then when you
have to make certain adjustments or adapting,
all that other, you don't make overhauls,
because when you make overhauls, man, it hurts
you. But you make adjustments. Some say Tiger
Woods could have beaten Jack Nicholas' record
of the most masters if he wouldn't have dramatically
changed his swing, when he did. That took
his game back two to three years, and then
he got hurt, because it was a major shift.
And I know people say the knee, the back,
all this other stuff, but he could have won
most masters, because it was goo dramatic
of a shift. There's a lot of motivational
speakers that like to say, you know, look
what Tiger did, and he made the shift, even
in. . . I get it. It probably validates an
argument that person's trying to make at that
time. But sometimes when something works,
work it, but while you're going to your game
plan, try all the other unconventional way
of solving that problem that industry or company
or the product is facing.
So what do you do now? Let's say you have
your plan in place. What do you do now? Now
you've got to work backwards. So think big.
Where do I see myself being 10 years from
now in this business, in this company, in
this industry? Put a 10-year plan. How about
five years? Then three, then one, then six
months, then three months. Then today, put
a one, two, three plan together. Today I need
to focus on one this, two this, three this.
Everything needs to be tied to a number. Why?
Because big thinking has to do with what?
It's the first thing I said - math. So everything
is math. You notice numbers here. It's math.
Put your numbers together, start thinking
bigger, and next thing you know, you'll actually
say, you know what this big thinking stuff
is not as difficult as I thought it was. But
I hope you take this whole message very seriously
on how to think big. And I wanted to give
it to you in a way that most people, you know,
the typical traditional things you read on
magazines that, set goals, you know, do this.
I want to give you a completely different
way of thinking about bigger that some of
the other outlets don't talk about. But my
challenge to you is don't make this about
you. Make it about a bigger cause, the world
is depending on you to think big, and solve
problems today more than ever. And like I
said earlier, it is easier today to think
bigger than ever before.
Mario, let me get my pillow here. By the way,
some of you guys, Mario wanted me to send
a message to you guys and thank you guys for
the most incredible heartfelt messages you
guys have been sending him about Street Team.
Mario's so thankful about all the messages.
I love you! If you haven't seen them, don't
worry about it, but Mario's been getting a
lot of love from people that watch Street
Team. Paul, you're part of that as well, so
I've got to throw you in that, too. You're
part of that as well. They're trying to figure
out and see what's going to happen with Street
Team. We're going to be launching a lot of
new stuff here soon, so stay tuned. If you
haven't subscribed to Valuetainment yet, please
do so. Our goal is to get to a quarter million
subs. We're at 100,000 subs now. Our goal
is to get to a quarter million subs by June
1st of next year. This is a channel that many
say is the #1 channel for entrepreneurs on
YouTube. We love for you to test it out against
anybody else out there that gives you the
best how-to for entrepreneurship, without
asking for $8,000 or $6,000 or $10,000 or
$5,000. Free content that we have here.
Mario: We have the contest videos.
Patrick: That's right. By the way, for some
of you guys, when we did the 100,000, if you
haven't posted your video yet, October 25
is the last day to post your video. We already
have a ton of people that have posted, and
Mario's put the top 15 or 16 playlist that
you can see. Just go on YouTube and type,
"Why I love Valuetainment." You'll see a bunch
of people that have submitted their videos.
We're going to choose three of them, where
you'll fly in here to Dallas, Texas, and you
and I will get some one-on-one time for three
hours for me to do the business planning with
you for your business in 2017, but only three
of you will be chosen to come here and spend
some time with us. So if you haven't submitted
it yet, you can also email Mario. Why don't
I give them your email address - marketing@patrickbetdavid.com
- Paul, let's put that email address here,
marketing@patrickbetdavid.com. He'll get back
to you. It still works. Marketing@patrickbetdavid.com.
And if you've got any questions about the
episode today, on how to think big, comment
on the bottom, questions, thoughts.
Thanks for watching everybody. Take care,
bye bye.